Continuous Integration Cage Fight
Moderator: Tom Sulson
Contestants: Team City, Cruise, Build Forge, Hudson, Build-a-matic, Pulse
Format: 5 minute demonstration and talk per developer

Introduction

CITCON always has a fair turnout of CI vendors.  We were particularly blessed this year, which is why this session turned out so well.  I was asked to sport my Asus eepc and take notes. I also captured a little video from each talk.

Build-a-matic. (Ivan Moore) 
----------
See Ivan's notes
Open source.  Supports subversion and perforce.
Unique feature: does a binary search between svn revisions to work out which commit broke the build.
Unique feature: Can re-run a build if you think you have flaky test infrastructure.
Unique feature(?) can display an icon to represent the developers.  This seems to have more impact on the developers.

CruiseControl (the Java one) (represented by Paul Julius)
-----------
Open source.
Since 2001.  Oldest tool of it's kind.
Most VCS support (everything from Accurev to VSS) of all the CI servers.
Very flexible
File based configuration works well with CI.

Hudson (represented by Eric Lefere)
-----------
Open source.
Easy to configure - GUI based
Attractive interface
good visual representation of build status
Localised in 8 languages
Distributed, can choose the target (TC does this)
Multi-matrix things work out the combinations.
Rich plugin community.


Cruise (represented by Chris Read) 
----------
Closed source
2 agents, free
$1800/yr for up to 3-6 agents.
$10,000 35
Almost from scratch rewrite.  Uses the Ant Builder from CruiseControl.
Pipeline allows promotion via modification sets though envs.
Stages have jobs.
Jobs can depend on resources.
Records a flash movies of selenium tests.
Nice tabs with metric results.
LDAP integration

Compilation done in stage one.  Artifacts are kept internally by cruise. You ask Cruise to give you them.

Jason Sankey from Yutubi - Pulse
-------------------------
Closed source 
Unlimited license: $1500 $2500 $4000, depending on agent numbers, perpetual license, one year's support.  (source code access if you buy the license).
Idea is an Easy and flexible CI server
Supports personal builds, distributed builds and plugins
Keep configuration in SVN
unique feature: reuse of config facts inside the config via templates
Test config before commit

Yegor Yarko - Jetbrains guys - Team City
--------------------------
20 devs, 20 projects, enterprise $3000, more agents are $300 each.

config is in xml or web
build agents
security
Unique feature: Gives failed test feedback before build finishes.
Find new failed builds
private builds
Unique feature: IDE plugins
Unique feature: auto commit
code analysis
very developer friendly 
Unique feature: stop a build
good plugins support
Probably the best .NET support ...
open sourcing some of the plugins

Louis from IBM Rational Build forge
-----------------------------------
you pay for concurrent users
Environments are mapped
Build agents have manifests that describe their facts.
Runs commands as lowest common denominator
Including scm access
Supports aix, nintendo ds vxwrks, imb midrange systems
Easy to //ise
Can parse tool output and fail on a string
Ldap
Unique feature: very wide agent support


