So I'm not sure how we continue to get by with it. I'm constantly and continually surprised by what passes as quality in our industry. In my particular neck of the woods - the City (financial district of London) - stories abound about all kinds of things. All the FSA, SEC, OCC, ... would need to shut most banks is a fairly competent senior dev or hands-on architect to join their audit teams.

Most of the stories shared amongst my friends and colleagues involve numbers that are astounding to us (even given our rates) but are barely a glitch to the businesses we support. Trading desk lost a few million because the software actually lost the trade? No problem (well, technically they could recreate it by looking at the logs). Sure some dev gets it in the neck, and has to change employers to maintain his bonus level, but they'll be laughing about it down the pub by the end of the month.

At least those governing bodies apply some pressure for us to have our act together at some level. In other domains, the situation is even worse. Who is making the broadband providers accountable for what they do? What kind of flimsy network do you have that I have to bounce my router (that sounds like a south jersey pick up line: "Hey baby, wanna ...") whenever there is a power outage? Why do I have to re-dial into a call center because there is no way for one department to transfer me or themselves to another area? Can I arrange a delivery time in increments smaller than "Tuesday". Without the headlines and correlation to the big £$£ amounts, its death by a thousand cuts for the rest of us.

I recently tried to see if I could get home earlier by switching my flight to land in Portland rather than Seattle, my ultimate destination being somewhere in between. Starting in San Francisco, the computer looked up the next flight leaving for Portland, and routed me from SF to Spokane to Las Vegas to Portland. So technically, the results were accurate. But I had asked for a flight that would get me to Portland as soon as possible, not leave as soon as possible. The system wasn't configured to search by arrival.

In most orgs, IT is considered a cost. And customers are external to the company and are easy to dismiss: "If you just do it the way we've designed it to work, then all will be well." Except they haven't designed it with any grand vision of how it all works. They put in the cheapest solution to take care of the happy day scenario and maybe a few rigid pathways to deal with contingencies. The value add that they all miss, the reason why I miss talking to a person with responsibility and authority, is for the edge cases.

There are sophisticated logistics systems that make it possible for deliveries to be specified in time increments smaller than "Tuesday". If you can transfer money in seconds, why does it take 2-5 days for a wire transfer to clear? These inefficiencies benefit the business so they are unlikely to change. Unless some bright spark wakes up to the idea that, if you stop pissing of your customers, then disruptive technologies and business models will have less of an impact on your business.

Internal systems can be even worse. This is where you really learn whether the company you works for both "gets" IT and cares about the people doing your job. At one previous employer, their internal systems were (and still are, by all accounts) hideous for the people doing the business of the firm. They would spend money on opening a new office in whatever corner of the third world the CEO thought he could pick up chicks, but wouldn't spend the pesos to develop a decent front end for time and expenses. This led to procrastination by the consultants, followed by regular brow beatings about getting your T+E done so that bills could get generated and we could all get paid.

The connection was never made that if they just made it easier for us to do the right thing, we would. But by showing they didn't value it, we were happy to not value it as well. End result, bills being paid 90 or more days out from when the work was done. Not the best position to be if you are a growing professional services firm.

Financial systems get more scrutiny because of our capitalistic society. Were we more socialist, or at least humanitarian, we'd call out many more examples of software that, while technically capable of completing a task, makes one wish for a human and some paper.

What if OFT, OfCom and similar authorities stepped in and said, "Right, this is ridiculous and doesn't conform to any industry standard or best practice business process" and slapped people with a hefty fee. Or if Health and Safety looked at your internal systems and shut down your T+E system: "I'm sorry sir, but that doesn't conform to any known UI guidelines; it's clearly not fit for purpose and is causing create stress amongst your workforce".

And that's just the visible wackiness inherent in the application code. The bigger design and architectural decisions, and policies put in place to protect an enterprise from itself, are much higher risk. I was on a plane recently that had to re-boot in an attempt to get the GPS system to kick in. Something had gone wrong during a recent upgrade and they never did get it working. We ended up flying without it. Wasn't sure if that was bemusement or concern in the pilot's voice.

So why does this happen? Why are we so bad at delivering software that adds to an experience?

Oh where to start...